---
date: 2021-03-16
title: "CMRI Mice V1.0: New Mouse Models for Computational Investigations"
short_title: "CMRI Mice V1.0"
prime_author: 
authors: 
doi: 
group: pub
image: 09_news_item_pic.jpg
wide: false
---
IT’IS has released four new computational mouse models segmented from high-resolution structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data acquired by the Animal Imaging Center of the Institute of Biomedical Engineering, a joined institution of the ETH Zurich and the University of Zurich. The work which had been initially started as part of a study funded by the Federal Office for Radiation Protection in Germany to investigate tumor risk due to radio-frequency exposure, continued after completion of the study with the further development of the mouse models by segmenting additional tissues and ensuring consistent tissue naming and level-of-detail.

The new set of models consists of one pregnant mouse model at the 19th day of gestation, both a 12-week-old female and male mouse as well as a one 3-week-old male mouse. Each of the new models includes approximately 70 tissues and has been enhanced by additional Sim4Life functions, such as the poser and automatic tissue material property assignment based on our Tissue Properties Database.

Note that as part of our mission to support national and international research endeavors, the four MRI Mice V1.0 models, as part of our ViZoo, are made available together with the corresponding whole-body MR images. This will enable researchers to add additional structures, e.g., by registering a brain atlas to the image data.

Further details on the MRI Mice V1.0 models can be found on our website.

For more information, please contact us at virtualpopulation@itis.swiss.
