---
date: 2021-01-19
title: "MARTIN V1.0 and ViP Hand Library for WPT Evaluations"
short_title: "MARTIN V1.0"
prime_author: 
authors: 
doi: 
group: vpop
image: 03_news_item_pic.jpg
wide: false
---
The IT’IS Foundation develops highly detailed whole body virtual human and animal models as part of our Virtual Population (ViP) and ViZoo projects. Today, we are happy to introduce MARTIN V1.0, a new open-source pediatric computational model that was developed by the Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging at Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, USA, and that will be hosted by IT’IS.

The development and validation data of MARTIN V1.0 are described in the paper published last Wednesday by Hongbae Jeong and colleagues in PLOS ONE. The 29-month-old male whole body numerical model that includes 28 head and a total of 86 body tissues that were segmented from high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography images. Details about the segmentation techniques and validation can also be found in the paper.

2101 martin vip mm web

IT’IS is pleased to host and distribute this model as it brings us closer to our vision of establishing a comprehensive library of high-quality anatomies representing the human population. MARTIN V1.0 is distributed as STL files (open file format supported by all major simulation and CAD tools), as well as a Sim4Life specific file, with pre-assigned material properties using the IT’IS Tissue Properties Database.

proposal3 mm web

We are also pleased to confirm the release of the ViP Hand Library V3.x that has been specifically developed for exposure assessments of wireless power transfer systems. The library has already been introduced by our partners SPEAG with the release of their DASY6 Module WPT and SEMCAD X Matterhorn V19.0 and by ZMT with the release of Sim4Life V6.0. The ViP Hand Library allows the user to comprehensively study the hand exposure while charging a device. Further details can be found on our website.

For more information on MARTIN V1.0, please contact us at virtualpopulation@itis.swiss.
